---
layout: page
title: "Commands"
category: overview
order: 3
date: 2015-07-13 09:25:37
---

* [Basics](#basics)
* [Fields](#fields)
* [Path](#path)
* [Namespace](#namespace)


### Basics
Forms can be easily generated through provided command line generator.

For example, to generate form class with name `LoginForm` in the `app/Http/Forms` path, you just need to run this:

```sh
php artisan make:form Http/Forms/LoginForm
```

And it will generate file with name `LoginForm.php` in path 'app/Http/Forms' - Full path `app/Http/Forms/LoginForm.php`,
and it will have this content:

```php
<?php namespace App\Http\Forms;

use Kris\LaravelFormBuilder\Form;

class LoginForm extends Form
{
    public function buildForm()
    {
        // Add fields here...
    }
}
```

### Fields

When creating form class through CLI it is possible to pass array of fields that will be automatically added to the class.
Let's take example from above. Most of the time, login form contains username and password fields. To generate form class with those
fields this command needs to be run:

```sh
php artisan form:make Http/Forms/LoginForm --fields="username:text, password:password"
```

And it will generate this:

```php
<?php namespace App\Http\Forms;

use Kris\LaravelFormBuilder\Form;

class LoginForm extends Form
{
    public function buildForm()
    {
        $this
            ->add('username', 'text')
            ->add('password', 'password');
    }
}
```

`--fields` option needs to contain comma separated list of **name:fieldtype** type of text.

### Path

When `--path` option is not provided in the command, path where form class needs to be put is determined automatically from the namespace.
When you create form `Http/Forms/LoginForm`, it will automatically prepend `app/` to it, and add `.php` extension.

In some situations, for example, if you are using this package as a depencency for another package, you could provide path manually.
Here's how that would work:

```
php artisan make:form MyLoginForm --path="src/Auth/LoginForm"
```

Will generate form class with in path `/var/www/laravel-project/src/Auth/LoginForm/MyLoginForm.php`:

```php
<?php namespace src\Auth\LoginForm;

use Kris\LaravelFormBuilder\Form;

class MyLoginForm extends Form
{
    public function buildForm()
    {
        // Add fields here...
    }
}
```

**NOTE:** Base path is determined from Laravel's `basePath()` method from Application class, which is in example above `/var/www/laravel-project/`.

**NOTE:** Namespace is guessed from the path. In these situations, it's best to use `path` option together with [Namespace](#namespace) option.

### Namespace

Namespace for the form class is most of the time guessed from Form class name provided to the CLI command.
So when you create form `Http/Forms/MyForm`, it will prepend namespace which was set with `app:name` command, which is by default `App` and this results in
`App\Http\Forms`.

In situations when the [Path](#path) option **IS** provided, namespace is guessed from the path (Check example in [Path](#path) section).

To override it, you can also provide `--namespace` option to the command. So to fix example above, we need to run this command:

**NOTE** Value for this option will be used as provided, so make sure to use backslashes to generate proper namespace.

```
php artisan make:form MyLoginForm --path="src/Auth/LoginForm" --namespace="App\Auth\LoginForm"
```

And than we get class in path `/var/www/laravel-project/src/Auth/LoginForm/MyLoginForm.php` with this content:

```php
<?php namespace App\Auth\LoginForm;

use Kris\LaravelFormBuilder\Form;

class MyLoginForm extends Form
{
    public function buildForm()
    {
        // Add fields here...
    }
}
```

**NOTE:** Make sure to wrap `--namespace` value in single(') or double(") quotes, so the backslash(\\) is not lost. If you want to skip using any of those, make sure you escape it like this `App\\Auth\\LoginForm`.
